Advanced Features and Transports
With an understanding of the basic
functionality of the Metasploit Framework
and the meterpreter, we can proceed
to more advanced options,
which we can display with the
“show advanced” command.
Let’s investigate a few of
the more interesting options.
First, let’s take a look at some
advanced encoding options.
In previous examples, we
chose to encode the first stage
of our shellcode that
we placed into the exploit.
Since the second stage of the
Meterpreter payload is much larger
and contains signatures that
could possibly trigger Antivirus,
we may opt to encode this stage as well.
We could use EnableStageEncoding
together with StageEncoder
to encode the second stage
and possibly bypass detection.
To do this, we set
EnableStageEncoding to true,
and set StageEncoder to our desired
encoder, in this case, x86/shikata_ga_nai:
The AutoRunScript option is also quite
helpful as it will automatically
run a script when a meterpreter
connection is established.
This is very useful during
a client-side attack
since we may not be available
when a user executes our payload,
meaning the session
could sit idle or be lost.
For example, we can configure the
“windows enum logged on users” module
to automatically enumerate logged-in users
when meterpreter connects:
Now let’s re-run our binary on the Windows
system and get a new meterpreter session.
So far, we have navigated within a
Meterpreter session using various
built-in commands, but we can also
temporarily exit the Meterpreter shell
to perform other actions inside
the Metasploit Framework,
without closing down the connection.
We can use “background” to
return to the msfconsole prompt,
where we can perform other
actions within the framework.
When we are ready to return
to our meterpreter session,
we can list all available
sessions with sessions -l.
Then we can again interact
with our session with sessions -i
followed by the respective
Id of the session.
Using these commands, we can
switch between available shells
on different compromised hosts without
closing down any of our connections.
In our previous examples, we have used a
pre-defined communication protocol
(like TCP or HTTPS) to exploit our target,
which we chose when we
generated the payload.
However, we can use Meterpreter
payload transports
to switch protocols after
our initial compromise.
Before we see how this works,
let’s background our session
and unset AutoRunScript
and EnableStageEncoding.
Now let’s return to our
meterpreter session.
We can list the currently available
transports for the Meterpreter connection
with transport list.
We can also use “transport add”
to add a new transport protocol to the
current Meterpreter session
using -t to set the desired
transport type.
In this example, we will add
the reverse tcp transport,
which is equivalent to choosing the
reverse tcp meterpreter windows payload.
We will apply the options for
the specified transport type
including the local host
IP address with -l,
and the local port with -p.
Before we can take advantage
of the new transport,
we must set up a listener to
accept the connection.
We’ll do this by once again
using the multi handler module
and specifying the same
parameters we selected earlier.
With the multi handler configured, we can
return to the Meterpreter session…
and run “transport next” to change to the
newly-created transport mode.
This will create a new Meterpreter session
and close down the old one.
In this case, we successfully
switched transports,
created a new meterpreter session,
and shut down the old one.